Rules reference for Hearthstone Battlegrounds

Maximum board size: There are always two boards visible in battlegrounds. One of them is the current player's board, which is always visible. Another is the tavern, which is visible during the tavern phase and from which cards can be bought. Another is the current opponent's board, which is only visible during combat against that player and contains their minions. Each board can contain at most 7 minions (or minions/spells, in the case of the tavern). Players cannot play minions from their hand if their board is full.

Maximum hand size: There is a maximum hand size of 10. A player with 10 cards in their hand cannot gain any new cards (except in special circumstances like Time Warps)--they are prevented from buying more cards from the tavern and any new cards that would be added to their hand from an effect are destroyed.

Player Gold: Each player has a current maximum gold amount, starting at 3 on turn 1. A player's maximum gold increments each turn starting on turn 2 where it goes to 4. Players get a total of 7 natural increments to their maximum gold at the beginning of each turn after the first, normally ending with 10 maximum gold on turn 8. Certain spells and effects can increase this even more, but you always get at least one extra maximum gold each turn up to turn 8. Each turn a player's gold is refilled up to their current maximum gold amount.

Tavern Phase: The first part of each turn, where each player is able to buy cards (minions, spells) from a tableau of up to 7 cards in the tavern. Minions always cost 3 gold, and spells each have their own cost. Players can "refresh" the tavern for 1 gold, discarding the current set of cards and randomly generating a new set. When a player buys a card, it is added to their hand--it cannot go directly to the board. Players can play minions and spells from their hand during the tavern phase. Players can also sell minions on their board to the tavern for 1 gold, freeing up space for other minions.

Tavern Tier: There are either 6 or 7 tavern tiers depending on modifiers applied to the current game. The tavern always starts at tier 1 and can be upgraded during the tavern phase by paying the current upgrade cost. The cost to upgrade the tavern to the next tier decreases by 1 each round, down to 0. Each tier has a fixed initial cost that is the same in all games. The tavern tier determines which cards can appear in the tavern. Normally, when the tavern is refreshed, only cards up to the current tavern tier can show up in the tavern to be bought. Cards from higher tiers are generally stronger than cards from lower tiers. Effects applied to minions during the tavern phase are permanent unless otherwise stated.

Combat Phase: The second part of each turn, where each player faces their opponent (randomly selected at the beginning of each turn) for the current turn. The player with the most minions on their board gets to attack first. If tied, the starting player is randomly selected. Starting with the starting player's left-most minion, then going to the second player's left-most minion, minions take turns attacking until one player has no minions left on their board. Once a player's right-most minion has attacked, the order starts again with their left-most minion. Each minion's target is randomly selected, but minions with taunt must be attacked before minions without taunt. When one minion attacks another minion, they both deal damage to the other equal to their attack value. Minions with 0 or less remaining health after an attack die and are removed from the board for the current combat. If one players runs out of minions first, they lose and take damage equal to the sum of the winning player's tavern tier and the tier of each of their remaining minions. If both players run out of minions at the same time, the combat ends in a tie and neither player takes damage. Importantly, things that happen during combat (minions dying, summoning new minions, minions gaining or losing attack or health, minions gaining or losing other keywords) are not permanent and at the beginning of each tavern phase each player's board is reset to how it was at the end of the last tavern phase.

Hero Damage Cap: The maximum damage that can be done to a hero at the end of combat is determined by the current turn and number of players remaining in the game. During the first few turns, this is capped at 5 and any damage in excess of 5 that would be dealt to a hero at the end of combat is not applied. This increases to 10 after a few turns and then to 15 around turn 8. The cap remains at 15 until 4 or fewer heroes remain, at which point the cap is removed entirely.

Hero Death: When a hero loses their last point of health, they are eliminated from the game. When a hero is eliminated from the game, they don't play anymore and don't participate in combat.

Kel'Thuzad: Kel'Thuzad is a reserved "hero" who controls an eliminated player's minions during combat when an odd number of players remain in the game. No person ever plays as Kel'Thuzad, and Kel'Thuzad doesn't participate in the tavern phase to make changes to their board. Kel'Thuzad may end up controlling multiple eliminated player's boards over subsequent turns as more players are eliminated as long as there are an odd number of players remaining at the beginning of the turn.